---
layout: post

title: 2015 Chicago Crime Types
description: A few links and notes from week 1.

author: Qingwei Chen
email: davideads@gmail.com
twitter: eads
---

## Lecture

<iframe width="1196.5" height="475" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vz6cYSaG_056QGUg_z_6DtOhRAfoy6seWuWiLfU1zRI/pubchart?oid=505065583&amp;format=interactive"></iframe>

Based on the data of 2015 Chicago Crime, I decide to select some data from this large database as my sample data. My tables indicate two basic phenomenon, one is the variation of crime numbers among different communities in South and Southwest Chicago; another one is showing the different numbers among different types of crime. 

I select South and Southwest area as the sample area to analyze. The reason why I choose these two areas is because they are the most un-safe areas all around Chicago in common sense. I want to look on the data closely to see if the data indicates the same way as common sense and analyze what cause these areas more dangerous than other areas. 

The types of crime I picked up are: Offense involving children, Assault, Burglary,
Crim sexual assault, Robbery, Narcotics, Deceptive practice, Motor vehicle theft, Sex offense, and Battery. I picked up the sample numbers which are at least over 2000, then all the sample numbers can significantly compare to each other. I chose the 10 types of crime which have largest crime numbers as my sample data. And I think these 10 types of crime can represent the most important crime types in Chicago. 

<iframe width="1110.5" height="474.5708333333333" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vz6cYSaG_056QGUg_z_6DtOhRAfoy6seWuWiLfU1zRI/pubchart?oid=707637969&amp;format=interactive"></iframe>

Based on the data that I analyze, I found that community 43 has the largest number of crime, community 43 represents Jackson Park Highlands in South Shore. Other than this, communities 66,67, and 68 are three close by communities which both have very high rate of crime. They both locate on south side Chicago and stick together which means this big area is a “dangerous place.” These three communities are Chicago Lawn, West Englewood and Englewood. 

According to Aamer Madhani’s reporting from USAToday, compare to 2014, violence was soaring in 2015. There was a 40% increase in different types of shootings and 29% more homicides in the first three months of 2015 in Chicago. However, Chicago has recorded fewest murders in decades in 2014. Beyond these data, Englewood has ranked as most dangerous neighborhoods for decades. Also, the community at north side of Englewood, Back of the Yards and Canaryville have serious crime rate as well, but a little bit better than those three.  

For different types of crime, I found that Battery takes place the largest rate among all types of crime. What surprised me the most is that Narcotics is the second largest rate of crime. Narcotics is not usually be the major issue causes crime but the situation is very different in Chicago. That means Chicago still faces very serious issue and Narcotics condition especially in South and Southwest Chicago. 

But what need us to pay much more attention to is the offense involving children, this type of crime ranks in top 10 crime that happened in Chicago in 2015. Children are innocent and they should not be involving in gun violence or any types of crime. People in Chicago should take care of children who live in those dangerous neighborhoods. 




## Homework

Email one piece of data journalism to discuss in class next week.
